# CMPSC 441 and GAME 450
# Final Project - Report

## Abstract
The goal of this project is to create an adventure game where players travel across a landscape from one city to another using the Pygame environment. The game follows an elf, Oillill who decides to start a new life. The elf who is the player of this game has little inheritance and they will have to cross many cities to go to the destination. The game requires the player to make decisions as they journey through different cities connected by routes. Different terrain types such as mountains or waterways will cost more which increases the cost of travel. The player is not allowed to go to cities that do not have connected routes. The player needs to strategically plan and choose wisely to reach the destination with the money that they have left. As the player travels to different cities, there is a chance that they may encounter an opponent. If there is an encounter, the player and the opponent will engage in a turn-style combat. When a player loses the combat or runs out of money, the game ends; however, when a player reaches the goal city after overcoming all the obstacles, the game is declared won. 

## AI Components
1. Pathfinding - Bresenham
2. Landscape - Perlin Noise
3. AI Combat Player - Mimic Agent
4. Story creation - OpenAI

## Problems solved
1. The pathfinding algorithms allowed the player to select the most optimal route between different cities. This helps the player reach the destination by minimizing the route cost. The bresenham algorithm was used as a building block within the pathfinding algorithm to find the shortest path between two cities
2. When creating a landscape using perlin noise, the algorithm generates a smooth, continuous function that resembles natural elevation variations found in real-world terrain. Perlin noise generates a grid of gradient vectors that determine the direction and magnitude of changes in elevation across the landscape. Different terrain features can be created by combining additional algorithms with perlin noise.
3. The AI Combat player is a mimic agent that is designed to imitate the behavior or actions of another player. In this game, the AI Combat player mimics the player's previous move during the combat.
4. After the game ends, a story is displayed showing all the cities and encounters the players have overcome. This is generated by saving the events in a journal and using openAI to generate a story.

## Appendix
### Appendix A
Bresenham ChatGPT (Bresenham.png)
### Appendix B
2. Perlin Noise ChatGPT (PerlinNoise.png)
### Appendix C
3. Mimic Agent ChatGPT (MimicAgent.png)
### Appendix D
4. Story ChatGPT (story.png)
